---
title: Cognitive dissonance in the industry
description: I work for a company that to most is unethical. Not illegal, not disallowed, unethical...
date: 2018-04-02T16:00:00.000Z
---

I work for a company that to most is unethical. Not illegal, not disallowed, *unethical*.

**To most, it is unethical because we provided the means for people to complete their power fantasies.** There is an unavoidable minority of people that compensate for their lack of skill *(or interest in training)* with software that augment their capacities, either by visually feeding them more data about their virtual environments, or by actually  granting them extra liberties of movement, conferring them a  navigational advantage over players that don’t have this supplemented  navigation. In this relationship, we are the left-hand side of the  equation that results in a man’s virtual power fantasy, with the  people’s covert slyness at the right-hand side.

I am coerced to remain in the industry however due to a number of  factors that range from being uncomfortable to being completely  hilarious. Sometimes, the people’s stupidity gives rise to situations  that can lead to disaster if left unchecked or uncontrolled. Let me talk about that.

## 1. We’re regulators within an otherwise deregulated and dangerous industry, and we must stay it. Here’s why.

In October 2018, the Canadian government presided by Justin Trudeau  legalized the consumption of cannabis for recreational purposes. This  polarizing move was both welcomed and detested by Canadians across the  country, who perceived the legalization as either a step in the right  direction or an acceleration of the cultural degradation that is  currently plaguing our world. Whereas Canadians debated the exact  motivation behind legalizing cannabis, ranging from it being a political move to a sign of progressive tide within the Canadian political scene, the government offered a completely different reason for legalizing  cannabis: **keeping criminals away from the young, and reducing the damage that the black market causes upon the Canadian economy**.

The Canadian government rightfully understood that they cannot  prevent the consumption of cannabis. Even though it would be the ideal  move in a world where substance abuse is becoming increasingly  prevalent, it ends up being calculatedly less damaging to instead  legalize the use of cannabis and regulate it. Evidently, the solution  isn’t optimal, still ends up infringing upon the rights of the people to own whatever they want, and it doesn’t completely alleviate the problem of the black market targeting young people *(and I do not believe a perfect solution exists),* but it proves an uncomfortable truth to every level of our society:  sometimes, the wrong things are better left regulated by the people we  don’t like. As much as I’d like psychoactive substances to be left  entirely unregulated and untouched by the state, I *understand*  the need for the government to intervene in that world and guarantee a  standard of safety, much like the government ensures the quality and  cleanliness of the food we eat. If the food industry *(and substance production)* is left unregulated as a whole, we would face problems that we wouldn’t otherwise face with the presence of a regulative entity, and these  problems put together would be arguably worse than the problem of  restrictive regulations.

**This principle must also be applied to our industry, which would be left unregulated without our presence.** Even though we all understand that we are an unethical imperative, the  industry would be far less ethical and infinitely more dangerous without us intervening and regulating it. Before we entered it, the industry  was chockablock with programs and scripts dedicated to stealing accounts from people, automatizing the transfer of their assets to another  account or outright selling them for money, transferring malware into  their computers and even displaying gruesome shock content on top of  other people’s screens. There were also a sub-industry entirely  dedicated to the ripping off of other people’s intellectual property for exclusively financial gain, and there were from time to time  collectives of disgusting individuals that wrote scripts to simulate *raping other players online*, which actually caught the headlines a few years ago.

When we came into the industry, we disavowed many of the horrendous  things that were commonplace back in the days. Scripts meant to steal  accounts from young people became contractually banned from being  executed on our software, the discussion of methods to steal accounts  were completely banned from our communication channels, techniques to  covertly transfer malware and other PUAs were also obliterated and  banned by a combination of revised usage policies and the dismantling of data transfer features, and a collective effort undertook by our  communities back in the days resulted in the pushing away of rape  scripts and other disgusting things, with the people behind them exiled  from where they once found a home. As a matter of fact, with nowhere to  go, these people ended up forming what is modernly called *condo games*, which are an absolutely immoral thing in and of themselves. If you’re  interested in observing how desperate and disgusting people can be, I  suggest you look that up.

Our introduction into this industry, and the introduction of our  competitors afterwards, drastically changed the scene and rendered it  less personally damaging for a ton of children out there. This is,  however, not permanent, as trends within the industry tend to be very  influenced by what we, the heads of the industry, choose to support and  choose to disavow. **If we were to leave it rashly, it would leave a power vacuum potentially guaranteeing fame to people of grander unethicality**, and if these people chose to support something that we deem unethical, then it could cause even bigger harm.

## 2. Responsibility for security and integrity would be given to the wrong people. Here’s why.

Game developers often feel that security should be left to the engine developers to prevent destruction and cheating in general. The  unfortunate truth they must face is that these developers can only  account for a subset of exploiting tools, and are limited in restricting the damage these tools can accomplish. **This is because game  developers on the platform often make use of inherently insecure game  design that inadvertently creates vectors of power for malignant actors.** There is no tool out there that can get into any game server, paste an  image on every surface, play uncomfortably loud and annoying music and  prevent other users from playing the game altogether. These days are  long gone, and I am glad of that because it allowed for sickening things to happen, some of which I mentioned earlier. However, this doesn’t  mean it *cannot* happen anymore, as some developers end up creating games that are insecure by design, and that can result in abuse.

Part and parcel of modern platform cheating commonly revolves around  the abuse of a game’s netcode, which abundantly trusts the client with  maintaining sensitive parts of the gameplay experience. If anybody  outside of the development community would take a good look at the  netcode of many games on the platform, they would probably tear their  eyeballs out at merely how **much** the server trusts its  clients. Things such as keeping track of money and modifying how much a  person has money, which are competences that should be left entirely up  to the server, are commonly entrusted to the client in a surprising *(and undeniably worrying)* amount of games. Sometimes, less obvious things that can also result in abuse are made the entire responsibility of the client, such as  registering bullet hits in FPS games *(this is a responsibility that  should be shared between the client and the server, not exclusively the  client, which is unfortunately the case for a bunch of shooter games out there)*. Some games also do something much worse by implementing  netcode which allows clients to arbitrarily modify the object properties of instances parented to the DataModel, probably because the developer  wants to restore functionality to legacy code in very old games that  were allowed to do this entirely out of the box thanks to the platform’s ancient “trust all replications” network paradigm. This is evidently a  security crime of the highest class as it allows people to basically  commit atrocities, such as deleting entire objects from the map,  changing and planting pictures on surfaces, modifying their character’s  properties to grant them more health, or sometimes kick players from the servers they’re in.

At some point, this insecure game design will get discovered by  people willing to abuse it. When that happens, and it becomes obvious  that your game is being thoroughly exploited, there is two paths you can go down:

- Man up, admit to yourself that you made us of poor game design  that resulted in blatant security vulnerabilities, write a patch fixing  the exploits and be done with it. Learn from your mistakes and profit  from your now-secured game.

- Complain to daddy Roblox that people are abusing your game’s  insecure design and coerce them into hiring five more security  researchers because you’re unwilling to teach yourself how to secure  your netcode. 

If these developers weren’t supported by engine developers, and were  out there, in the outside world of game development on their own, and  ended up writing insecure netcode that resulted in the exact same  consequences I’ve described, there would be nobody to console them when  bad actors end up abusing their vulnerabilities. Most developers would  simply tell them that it’s their mistake. However, on Roblox, developers delegate that responsibility to Roblox and Roblox alone, even though it wouldn’t be an issue at all if they adopted proper game design. I can  tell you straight away that Roblox would have saved a ton of money if  game developers weren’t used to their absolutely abhorrent networking  ideas, and these developers would have suffered far less in the past  decade. The responsibility of securing games is up to the game developer itself. Roblox is only responsible for limiting the damage these  exploits can do, which is something they are quite good at.

As for exclusively client-sided cheating such as wallhacking, that is considered entirely unavoidable by the video game industry. These types of small cheats can be engineered by hobbyists using an array of  completely free tools, such as Cheat Engine, and can’t be prevented  altogether even if you try extremely hard. Kernel-driven anti-cheats,  which are considered a godsend by many game developers together, aren’t  even capable of preventing these globally. Smart software developers  such as Valve have established a precedent of simply reinforcing their  anti-cheat as much as they can to prevent client-sided cheating instead  of investing in other expensive measures, such as litigation… which is  where I was going to, in fact.

## 3. Litigation would lead to financial ruin. Here’s why.

A lot of the suggested methods against our kind of software today  seems to revolve around undertaking legal action. I have read countless  threads on the Developers’ forums about how pursuing litigation seems to be an incredibly obvious and swift measure against our industry and how it could cease all of their problems quasi-instantaneously. Their  belief is not completely unfounded, and if I was a beginner in the video game development industry, I would have suggested the same, but anybody with a good amount of experience and the right mindset would instead  opt for an alternative solution.

Applications of our kind are not trees deeply buried into the ground, requiring expensive labour to uproot them and subsequently throw them  away. They are much more akin to weeds, growing in an instant after you  chop them off the ground. The minute an application is discontinued for  whatever reason, another one of remarkable similarity takes its place  within months if not weeks, forcing you to begin the process again.  Sometimes it takes merely days especially when the source code gets  published alongside the discontinuation, which would frustrate anybody  in charge of getting rid of the weeds wherever they sprout. Even when  the weed grows bigger than all the other plants, cutting it would just  lead to some other ones growing in its place, eventually becoming into  the same size.

Adopting a strategy of spending money on litigation against companies within the industry would eventually result in a cat-and-mouse type  situation wherein every successful case against a company leads to  another taking its place, beginning the process again. Any gains made  thanks to the litigation efforts would be quickly erased by another  company absorbing the power vacuum left behind, forcing new litigation  efforts that would be, again, very expensive. This would repeat *ad nauseam* up and until you run out of money to pursue legal action, which can  either bankrupt you or kill your legal budget. Your lawyers wouldn’t be  very happy getting fired because they did too good of a job.

### “Wouldn’t successful litigation demotivate the competition into  shutting down out of fear of legal action/C&D? Or, at least, prevent any new players from joining the industry?”

Establishing a legal precedent against an entire industry and  subsequently trusting in its ability to prevent the growth of the  industry altogether is a naive belief, and does not necessarily work in  all cases. Most of the participants in our industry already operate  anonymously in the belief that they are doing something illegal, and  most of our clients similarly believe that they are purchasing something illegal. However, just like a teenager feels illegal accessing online  pornography when in reality the material isn’t illegal at all, our  clients feel illegal purchasing and using our product when in reality  there is no law against it and is consequently completely legal. Their  belief in the illegality of our industry is simply correlated to how  unethical it is, as we perceive unethical things to be illegal and  vice-versa.

This perceived belief that our industry is illegal has convinced a  ton of investors and developers to adopt an infrastructure and an online identity that would thwart off any litigation procedures, either due to overwhelming communicative confusion or a complete inability to  identify the developers behind the software. Even though I seriously  doubt any kind of legal action would ever be undertaken against us,  these people would be in fact well-protected in that unlikely scenario  thanks to their paranoia, and their operations would end up continuing,  much to the chagrin of the litigators. If anything, litigation would  greatly **confirm** their paranoia and lead them to double  down on their anonymity. That would also lead to them sharing their  practices with new participants in the industry, formalizing the  industry as something inherently anonymous, seemingly ‘illegal’ and  difficult to litigate against.

So, predictably, **no**. It would only confirm the  paranoia of players already within the industry and make it even harder  to identify the people behind these products.

## From me to game developers: screw us over. Do it. 

All of this simply ends up with me desperately wishing for game developers to *screw us over*. I want you to use good game design so that netcode abuse becomes almost irrelevant. I want you to employ the greatest of detection measures  possible to detect and wipe unwanted people from your game. I want you  to do your best and make that line of work irrelevant and useless,  because we are simply a statement of how truly insecure your games are.  We exist simply because we were not accounted for in developers’ plans,  or because a lot of people has yet to figure out how to properly make  games. One of the big reasons why I press myself into supporting my  industry is because it has the potential to actually make games more  secure and teach people how to do proper network design. Being somebody  that is very security- and privacy- conscious *(both usually goes hand in hand)*, it personally pisses me off that developers on the Roblox platform are  so committed to being insecure by design, and I feel that just leaving  it be would worsen the problem and, as I’ve stated earlier, allow even  worse collectives to become the standard for video game cheating.

You **can** definitely screw us over. Stop thinking that daddy Roblox must do all of the heavy lifting – they can only do so  much, and people will find ways around whatever is thrown at them. You  can do it. The question is: will you be capable of sacrificing  easy-peasy game development in the name of proper security design?

------

### Addendum: I was previously in the security industry, and I want to join it again.

I actually used to be what developers call a “white hat” years ago. I did my utmost to locate security vulnerabilities within software and  web platforms and report them to whosoever is responsible. When I could  do it for cash (❤️ [H1](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://www.hackerone.com/)), I did it for cash. Otherwise, if I couldn’t, I just reported it as  formatted as I could and went on with my life. When I was younger, I  loved designing methods to implement relatively bulletproof integrity  checks into software, and that eventually resulted in me sharing some of my ideas with some platforms, including Roblox. I was a security  ‘freelancer’ more than anything else, with no professional commitment.

If, one day, someone came to me presenting a great offer to join  someone’s team as a security researcher, reverse engineer or otherwise, I would gladly take it over whatever I have now, regardless if the money I make is lessened *(insofar it’s not a crushingly low salary)*. I prize financial stability above all, especially when contractually  backed. Not only would it be ethically better and make me feel good for  what I do for once, but I would feel far more comfortable and finally  have an opportunity to implement some of my ideas. I’ve always somewhat  liked the idea of making my own security toolkit as well, and building  one that would specifically target what I did within this industry would be a plan of mine. Preferably I would also get my mates to participate  as well if they want. Evidently, it’s quite difficult to apply for a job however. Not only am I unskilled at job hunting but I also didn’t  graduate anywhere, which is a strong requirement for a lot of companies  out there, even though I believe to possess the skills and experience  necessary to work in the security industry.

But that’s just a dream scenario, evidently. Chances are, it’ll be  tougher than I think. Or it won’t happen ever, which is more likely. I  don’t feel that bad over it however.