---
title: Raising the Bar, A Year Later
description: A year ago, I wrote an article titled Raising the Bar. Its purpose was to tell the recent history of Roblox exploiting from my point of view...
date: 2018-04-01T16:00:00.000Z
---

## Raising the Bar: A Year Later

A year ago, I wrote an article titled *Raising the Bar*. Its  purpose was to tell the recent history of Roblox exploiting from my  point of view, detailing the many controversies and surprises that  happened between 2015 and 2020. As Roblox exploiting history isn’t  widely documented and there is a large prevalence of false information  in exploiting communities, I thought providing my own account would help netizens gain an authoritative insight into how the exploiting scene  came to be. Part of the article was also dedicated to the rise of  Synapse, which had an indisputable influence on the development,  marketing and commercialization of execution platforms.

However, several additions are to be made related to the content within *Raising the Bar*, and I have included them here. While *Raising the Bar* was written to be as accurate as possible, it focused more on Synapse  and I’s upbringing instead of the development of the exploiting scene as a whole, and turmoil at the time made it so that I excluded content  related to the competition and strengthened viewpoints amiable to  Synapse’s cause. Because of this, several key events between 2015 and  2020 were missed, some of which were deliberately left out for the sake  of shortening the article, and some events were heavily shortened, with  many details left out. I have decided to include them in this afterword, and provide a bit more insight into the history of Roblox exploiting,  as well as some of my meditations on the current market and community  situation.

## Specification I: The Roblox source code

In December 2016, a member of the now-defunct programming collective previously known as *zHex* managed to obtain the source code of the Roblox client, a feat  previously exclusive to our brightest imaginations. The build that was  distributed to us was from March 2015, indicating that the leak was  either (1) much older than previously thought, or (2) obtained from  someone that didn’t have access to Roblox’s servers for a very long  time. There were several theories on how the source code was obtained,  but the most likely conclusion stemming from circumstantial evidence is  that a disgruntled Roblox employee distributed it privately to some of  his close friends, and through a long chain of sharing, it was  eventually leaked to us. This build is the very same that was made  available on *git.rip* and other proprietary source code sharing  websites. When I got my hands on the source code, I found it insanely  interesting. A lot of information, especially the inner workings of the  Roblox cloud servers, was revealed through it. Even though it wasn’t  strictly necessary for exploit development, a lot of reverse engineers  at the time used it as a guide to navigate statically accessible  disassemblies. I didn’t make much use of it, as I stopped developing  exploits shortly before it was leaked, but I kept it as a novelty.

Under the presumption that the source code was going to be  distributed to the general public, or was already leaked to it, I ran  the entire engine through the documentation generator [Doxygen](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://www.doxygen.nl/index.html). It automatically parsed the code within the engine and generated easily accessible indexed documentation which could easily be searched through without having to download any Roblox source code *(and thereby avoid potential copyright infringement)*. I hosted the resulting documentation on a personal server of mine which I made accessible to some of my friends that were in Rain. The entire  archive was password protected, and I assigned one account per  individual in the unlikely scenario that some member of the public would discover my personal server. Word of my personal server was quickly  shared to individuals orbiting Rain and one of them successfully  attempted to log into my server using credentials he stole from a Rain  member. Using these credentials, he successfully dumped a significant  part of my webserver, and kept whatever came out of it to himself. He  didn’t obtain the entirety of my server, and some code critical to to  the engine wasn’t extracted either, breaking a lot of references within  the Doxygen-generated structure. Thankfully, while he used his  possession of the webserver files as a bragging right, he never  distributed it to anybody else.

Even though the guy wasn’t responsible for any leaks, he was  responsible for increasing the awareness of the Roblox source code among exploit developers. This eventually lead to a veteran associate of  exploit developers, whom I have anonymously named Joseph in *Raising the Bar*, to do everything under the sun to obtain this source code. While we  will never be aware of the full extent of his strategies, one of which  eventually succeeded as he ended up obtaining the source code, his  attempt to infect some of my peers and I with malware using deception  has forever marked the exploiting community. He is also one of the few  individuals responsible for strategically distributing the entire source code to the public, spreading it in associated communities and using  bots to share mirrors to the archive. It could be argued that his  distribution of the source code resulted in a new era of exploiting, as  many developers were able to use the Roblox client source code as a  reference to accelerate the development of exploits, lifting many into  relevancy.

Today, the early 2015 Roblox source code is known among Roblox game  developers and exploit developers to be publicly available, albeit  finding it is still of great difficulty. I no longer have it in my  possession, and as far as I am aware, no exploit developer still uses it to this day because of how outdated it is. However, it still enjoys a  degree of importance among people and hobbyists interested in running  their own private distribution of Roblox, as the completeness of the  archive allows them to run their own servers and compile clients that  can connect to them. These people however frequently find themselves in  legal trouble as Roblox is less than willing to let them operate, which  is sad because I believe there is a lot of potential in custom  distributions of the Roblox engine.

## Specification II: The TestService exploit

An exploit I released in mid-2015, which happened to be my first, was incredibly simple and relied on a few lines of code. At the time, the  Roblox engine service *TestService* had a method called *DoCommand* which, as the name implies, ran a variety of commands when invoked. The power of my exploit relied on a set of “studio-only” debug commands  mistakenly imported into the client, which granted map editing  capabilities, such as the cloning, editing or moving of map parts, all  of which replicated to the server and subsequently distributed to all  players within the game instance. This moment essentially marked my rise as a prominent Roblox exploit developer at the time.

However, the release of my exploit was met with controversy. Even  though the concept of the exploit was original, the code that allowed it to work, such as the DataModel hierarchy traversal algorithms and  object field accessors, was sourced from an exploit whose source code  was previously released to the public. I failed to provide attribution  to the developers that made my exploit possible, and this resulted in  backlash from people in the know. Some of those concerned ended up  publishing announcements and articles of defamation before I was even  made aware of my mistakes, which generated a lot of public attention.  Whether these complaints were made in good faith is now unknowable, but I subsequently fixed the situation by simply providing attribution in my  release page. Afterwards, most of the controversy diminished, and all  was good.

Well, all *was* good. The problem is that this very moment ended up being the colossal *fuck up* that defined inter-developer relations for years to come. Because of this incident, developers thought you could trust *nobody* with your code, and *all* code must be kept to yourself or otherwise it risks being abused, and  your credit stolen. This created a very toxic environment wherein  developers and users like shamed each other if they published  educational material on exploit development, or in fact any helpful  resources on reverse engineering the engine. The minute your content  included a bit of code, you were publicly discredited and rejected as  you were seen as contributing to rampant plagiarism. The unfortunate  consequence of it all is that such an environment was self-reinforcing,  and it eventually gave birth to the very concerns that it tried to  prevent. As code was made less and less accessible, any code was seen as more and more valuable *(thereby increasing the rate at which code was collected and reused)*, and users whose code was inspired or sourced from publicly available  material were considered offenders of the highest degree, almost burned  at the stake, figuratively. It took a considerable amount of time *(around five years)* for this culture of aggressive anti-plagiarism to wither away. As a  matter of fact, traces of it can still be found today, with some small  time developers calling each other out on their use of publicly  available research.

## Specification III: The rise, downfall and rebirth of CLVMs

In late 2016, I began working on my own proprietary method for  achieving script execution on the Roblox engine. For those that are  unaware, Roblox dedicated the compilation of Lua scripts to their cloud  servers which allowed them to remove any Lua compilation facilities on  the client, thereby rendering the task of running arbitrary scripts on  the client infinitely more difficult for exploiters. The two mainstream  methods at the time were the wrapping of the Roblox Lua distribution  with a proxy environment running on your own Lua runtime, or converting  Lua bytecode compiled on your own to Roblox’s specialized Lua  instruction format and architecture. The first method was easy to  implement but was slow, prone to desynchronization between Roblox’s Lua  runtime and yours, and depending on the implementation, required  constant algorithmic consideration of Roblox’s Lua environment,  extensions and APIs. The second method was very hard to implement and  required a good understanding of the mathematical side of computer  science, but was fast, ran directly on Roblox’s VM facilities, and  provided a full access to the environment, extensions and APIs Roblox’s  Lua distribution had to offer.

Unwilling to commit to either, I decided to research an alternative  method of achieving execution. Basing myself on the early research of  fellow Roblox reverse engineer [booing](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://www.roblox.com/users/2982279/profile/) on transcribing Lua bytecode between incompatible instruction sets in  real-time, I eventually designed a Lua virtual machine from scratch that would perfectly emulate the behavior of the Roblox VM when fed standard LASM instructions. This principle of execution was eventually baptized *CLVM* by another developer, since I always failed to find it a proper name.  While fundamentally incomplete, my virtual machine was a very good  concept that demonstrated many advantages over classical ways of code  execution. All that you had to find to achieve code execution was a  couple of offsets related to Roblox’s Lua structures, and a method of  obtaining Lua execution states at runtime. These two elements alone  grants you quasi-complete script execution, but further work was  required to stabilize certain features, such as coroutine support.

My first attempt to formulate an exploit from my research culminated in *Last Occult*. The exploit at the time was only barebones and lacked support for  certain features, most notably upvalues, but it eventually  rematerialized into a group project called the *Occult Virtual Machine*, which I rebaptized OVM for the sake of simplicity. Most of the  individuals working on the project were Rain members, but very little  contributed – only former *ProtoSmasher* developers, mainly  Nexure and Slappy826, regularly contributed to the project. Several  advances were made in OVM’s time which further cemented the viability of CLVMs and proved its advantages over more classical ways of achieving  script execution, but sadly, stagnating development, failed ambitions  and an unworkable project structure led to the cancellation of the  project. I subsequently distributed the source code of OVM publicly for  educational purposes, which personally disappointed Slappy826. That  said, it is worth mentioning that Slappy826 eventually made an  impressive implementation of the CLVM called *Vector43* if my memory serves me right, but it never seen the light of day as *ProtoSmasher* was prioritized. *Vector43* can be reasonably called the world’s first proper CLVM.

After OVM’s collapse, the concept of the CLVM rapidly fell out of  favor by the exploit development community and eventually a revisited  form of script execution using bytecode conversion came into the  limelight. After this failure, I never personally undertook any serious  exploit development, and I wrote an afterword explaining the essential  concepts of the CLVM in a presentation which is linked to in *Raising the Bar*. Some attempts were made by the community to revive OVM, but they all  failed due to the project’s increasing outdatedness and the relative  inability of hobbyist developers who weren’t knowledgeable enough to  bring on the completion of OVM.

A few years later, in 2018-2019, Roblox began implementing their own Lua distribution titled *Luau*. The changes to the instruction set brought with it essentially made  current implementations of script execution unviable. If people sought  to continue their use, they would have to adapt it to a foreign Lua  implementation and therefore required a lot of painstaking research in  reverse engineered, often mutated code. When Luau eventually graduated  out of A/B testing and became Roblox’s engine of choice for all Lua  execution, it was clear that a radical solution was needed for  exploiting to continue. Reverse engineering the Luau instruction set and writing a corresponding compiler was the obvious choice, but it wasn’t  timely, and an update had to be pushed as soon as possible to preserve  client satisfaction. We came to the realization that the execution  method I pioneered, the CLVM, was actually appropriate in this situation and in fact was the only method left at the time to achieve script  execution on Roblox’s engine. As you could technically make the CLVM run on any instruction set *(insofar you made the behavior of each instruction logically and algorithmically correspond to its Luau instruction behavior)*, the problem of the Luau instruction set was essentially made irrelevant and script execution could be continued. The resulting virtual machine, named HSVM *(short for… I don’t actually know!)*, became the world’s second successful implementation of the CLVM execution concept, and subsequently became the **mainstream script execution method** among exploits for its resilience against change and ease of  implementation. Such resilience however is dwindling as Roblox keeps  pushing new changes to their virtual machine infrastructure, but CLVMs  are still keeping their position as the primary way to achieve script  execution and is unlikely to become outdated any time soon. The other  script execution method still in existence is a modified variation of  bytecode conversion, which is currently in the process of being  discontinued by many developers.

## Meditation I: The nature of our business

I was always a man that opposed business as an organization. In my  youth, I saw business and companies as things that transformed your life into an instance of something instead of you proper. I noticed how my  brothers frowned upon the workers that served them their sandwiches,  identifying them by their line of work, a principle that my young self  never fully understood — after all, with my horrible taste in fast food  that I inherited from my family, I looked at the ones serving my  hamburgers as mighty noble men who made me happy more than anything  else. They were friends, I thought to myself. I grew up never thinking  differently. I appreciated the work of the janitor in my high school as  he made our quarters clean, and I always felt wrong seeing pupils  leaving their trash around for him to collect. Similarly, I had great  respect for the workers who grabbed the garbage off our driveway and put them into their big gray trucks. This was work no one strongly desires  to do, but nevertheless is necessary, like doing our dishes after some  lengthy cooking.

I left high school without graduating to start working in a field I  found comfort in. I had an obsessive interest in computers and  technology since I discovered the internet as a child and I ended up  raising myself around technology, especially the making of it. My dad  showing me how to build a computer from pieces eventually led me to look up what the individual hardware did, leading me to further my searches  and, at some point, discover how programs were made. I found the concept of ordering a computer to do things via code endearingly creative, as I compared it to drawing things into existence, except you made the  computer prop things onto the screen. Even though I had no particular  skill in mathematics and I graded poorly in most things related to  geometry, algebra, calculus and the likes, the logic inherent to  programming was easily understood by my young self and it eventually  paved the way to my present career. Today, programming is what I do for a living, and I wouldn’t have it any other way.

The way I got into working, however, was very different than the way  people take. People usually begin by working minimum wage jobs, learn  the ropes of authority and workplace living. They understand the  consequences of disrespecting orders, of arriving late *(or too early if you’re German!)* to work, of not getting enough sleep. They also learn the reality of  not being in control of your schedule anymore while being responsible  for respecting it – school made it easy with their infrastructure and  your parents encouraging your participation in it, at least in my own  experience. That kind of work teaches you that slices of life aren’t cut for you and that you must put effort to get your own slice, a lesson  better learned when you use your opportunities to make mistakes at work  when you are not responsible for too many things back at home.

The way I got into work is essentially as an independent along with  my friends, which is a privilege to most people. We began our own  enterprise and built our own money, more or less. We went through many  tribulations, many angers and hard feelings, but we ultimately  persevered and pushed through to build ourselves a maintenance, a thing  to do on a day to day basis. Even though it is functionally and  practically a business, it never really felt like it. We are our own  bosses, we don’t risk our job security if we inadvertently miss job  deadlines, we have a high degree of creative input over what we do and  we can undertake our own personal developments within the business that, if proven popular with the rest of team, can be fleshed out into  something we can sell as a company. There is very little informal order  within our company and it gives you a very good amount of freedom. That  said, it still remains a business in the end, and there is work to be  done. The freedom we have is only the privilege of having our own  company, its nowhere near a permission to be lazy and let others do the  hard work. Responsibilities must be shared between all of us and we must all be responsible for something.

The quintessential greatness, and also issue, of such an environment is the ubiquitous presence of *humanity*. Working at a fast food chain teaches you that you’re another gear in a  wide system of cogs that makes the world go round. Your colleagues are  also cogs, and until you befriend them, you mostly see them as such.  Their humanity can be ephemerally considered, but is quickly lost the  second work becomes your mind’s priority. Contrariwise, working at your  own small enterprise doesn’t necessarily make you lose your perception  of humanity in other people. You don’t see them as solely coworkers, but rather as *friends*. Whereas a crying worker in a restaurant is  often told to bottle up his feelings for the duration of his shift, a  crying colleague in your small enterprise that you founded with him is  something you personally attend to. Whereas the crying worker in the  restaurant is often perceived as an annoyance to his coworkers and may  distract them from their work, the crying colleague in your small  enterprise is a friend that requires consolation.

All of these developments made me appreciate small enterprise as  business. My conceptions of what business was as a teenager slowly fell  apart, as I realized business *can* be noble. Not the cheap brand companies that employ people without experience, but the companies who  have clear ambitions and a desire to make a name for themselves. Of  course, I should have known better, because it didn’t take long for me  to realize that my young self was right in identifying the extreme  unpleasantness of business.

#### Competition from my vantage point

Competition turns honest people into bureaucratic savages whose goal  is to endlessly gain the upper hand over individuals they once  respected, or even friends they used to like. All of your innate  instincts to recognize humanity in your fellow man is crushed into dust  and swept away by the winds of the corporate as you convince yourself  that your greatest danger is the man that does the same work as you do,  except for a different name. Sometimes, this competition is not even  between companies, but between the very people in your workplace, which  is unfortunately the case for many places around the globe. For a long  time, I awaited this disease to hit me. I thought that it was inevitable for me to develop feelings of strong hatred for my competitors, who  used to be my friends. I convinced that it was only natural and a part  of how the business world worked.

But the disease never came. Somehow, even as our business expanded  and the differences in our competitors entrenched, I was never capable  of looking at them with the same anger and slyness they had when looking at me. Whenever they spoke to me, or rather us, their dialogue was  always surrounded by a smirky aura. I always replied with utter  friendliness and cooperation in recognition of the friendships we used  to hold, sometimes with the occasional joke to tackle the fact that we  were competitors, but each minute passed only further deepened the  atmosphere of conceit they cultivated. I stopped viewing their  communication as done in good faith, and I had to view what they said or published with wariness. Eventually, the friends I used to chat with  turned into sour men incapable of thinking outside of their work  interests. It was saddening to see how competition and business can turn you miserably inapproachable. This, however, is what I thought always  set me apart from others. We are told that we are all different in our  own ways, but some people fail to find the way that they are different. I believe I have found mine — no matter the situation, I always try to be as humble as possible and show as much respect as possible to  everybody, even the people that I dislike.

#### Our business relations, the sum of years of toxicity?

I believe that the only reason why our businesses are entrenched in a culture of dehumanizing competition is because of the toxic environment that preceded it, and the fact that we do nothing about it. The  audience we market to is widely considered to be immature,  irresponsible, unrealizing and incapable of foreseeing consequences. We  were born in it, eventually escaped it, but I think it tainted us in one way or another.

It is obvious that at some point, we will feel frustration, even  towards the very people we used to like. We are, after all, competitors. But after years of delving in it, I found that there is no place for  frustration in competition. Frustration sneaks up on you like sin does,  and letting it fester for far longer than it should ends up cutting  deeply into your motivation. Strangely enough, we like to convince  ourselves of the wonders of frustration by harkening back to some of the great men we know that persevered through countless hardships and ended up victorious. We fail to see that their frustration was only a side  effect of their situation, not what allowed them to power through these  difficult moments. Frustration is stress, and stress benefits nobody.

It is not because I successfully struggle against frustration that  others do, however. I personally know of many people who suffer from  great quotidian frustration, some of whose are close to me. Often I try  to give them respite from their frustration, promising that we will  overcome our mutual obstacles and boil away the heavy atmosphere of  self-deprecating irony. These promises, I don’t make them in vain. I  don’t make them because I expect solely to raise the hopes of the people that work with me. I make them because *I know* that’s where we  are going. Akin to a ship lost in the mist, sometimes our mates need a  beacon to know where they are situated and stay the course. If we don’t  realign ourselves when lost in thick fog, it becomes easier to fall prey to hopelessness. Through these late times, I have found that a clear  head ends up clearing the skies around us.

Evidently, it is easy to say that we need to let go of frustration,  but it is hard to accomplish. The development community will let go of  frustration and competitive toxicity as easily as they will introduce  business and market ethics into their *modus operandi*. That is,  it will probably never happen. In such a market with very little  differences between products, it becomes unreasonably tough to find a  worthwhile competitive edge, and sometimes they find the need to use  aggressive techniques to deliberately harm the competition in the name  of slight advances in the market altogether.

## Meditation II: Foreseeing the end

All of this is bound to collapse at some point. Roblox exploiting  isn’t forever. As interesting as it can be, and how educational it can  reasonably be, and how profitable it is to Roblox’s security forensic  team who must make considerable money reverse engineering exploits and  protecting their engine, it is not something that will stay. As we  progress towards increasingly complex DRM stratagems and locking down  what users can do with their devices, the viability of producing this  kind of software will eventually come crashing down. A lot of people are convinced that some sort of legal intervention will stop Roblox  exploiting – this is nonsense and doesn’t account for the relatively  benign nature of Roblox exploits by themselves, something I have  previously covered in my article *[Real Job, Real Work](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://letters.louka.sh/2020/10/31/real-job-real-work/)*. Let me summarize if you’re unwilling to read the article: most Roblox exploits by themselves accomplish *nothing*. They don’t immediately grant the user with abilities bordering on the  magical, nor does it decide to infringe trademark rights by its own  volition. Most of them, ours included, don’t even come with built-in  features that allows this behavior to happen. Exploits are, similarly to [Cheat Engine](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://www.cheatengine.org/), a tool for development. Fundamentally, they are programmable interfaces to an underlying Lua runtime and the colossal amount of format and  protocol conversion done by them result in their classification as  software with exclusively interoperable aims. To try a legal  intervention on exploits is to enter the legislative equivalent of the *cat-and-mouse* principle, and will end up costing Roblox possibly countless amounts of money as they try to chase down every exploit that will pop up on the  regular, especially if they decide to come after the big names in the  industry.

Regardless. What will stop Roblox exploiting is not a legal  intervention but rather the DRM and lockdown problems I have mentioned  above. With increasing advances in software obfuscation, license  enforcement, “sandboxing” of processes and hardware-based protection, it will become nearly impossible for anybody to run any code that  interfaces with currently running processes on modern computers. We are  already seeing this happening in our times with Windows 11’s TPM  hardware requirement, which is increasingly being considered a threat to digital sovereignty. This issue is formidably covered in Secret Club’s  article “[Windows 11: TPMs and Digital Sovereignty](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://secret.club/2021/06/28/windows11-tpms.html)“, a relevant excerpt of which you can read below:

> *So why is the TPM useful? The  TPM (along with suitable firmware) is critical to measuring the state of your device – the boot state, in particular, to attest to a remote  party that your machine is in a non-rooted state. It’s very similar to  the [Widevine L1](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://www.widevine.com/) on Android devices; a third-party can then choose whether or not to serve  you content. Everything will suddenly revolve around this “trust factor” of your PC. Imagine you want to watch your favorite show on Netflix in  4k, but your hardware trust factor is low? Too bad you’ll have to settle for the 720p stream. Untrusted devices could be watching in an instance of Linux KVM, and we can’t risk your pirating tools running in the  background!*
>
> *You might think that “It’s okay, though! I  can emulate a TPM with KVM; the software already exists!” The  unfortunate truth is that it’s not that simple. TPMs have unique keys  burned in at manufacture time called Endorsement Keys, and these are  unique per TPM. These keys are then cryptographically tied to the vendor who issued them, and as such, **not only does a TPM uniquely identify your machine anywhere in the world**, but content distributors can pick and choose what TPM vendors they want to trust. Sound familiar to you? It’s called Digital Rights Management, otherwise known as [DRM](https://web.archive.org/web/20220114025416/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_rights_management).*
>
> *can1357, Daax, everdox*

The moment Roblox’s security suite detects your computer is using  some sort of cheat, they can immediately use telemetric connectivity to  report back your infringement to their servers. *And then its over.* Your entire computer is instantly, and probably permanently, considered a cheating device, and you will have to probably spend a considerable  amount of money buying another device to avoid their checks. As there is no security check good enough to avoid all security, and the penalty  associated with TPM bans may be too critical for comfort, it can be  safely guaranteed that no developer will market any Roblox exploit ever  again shall it become a reality… at least responsible developers won’t.  We won’t. Obviously, this feature won’t roll out anytime soon, not even  this year, as that form of security will have to be thoroughly tested to avoid any potentially devastating false positives, so we still got some good time ahead of us, but I believe this is inevitable.

I have acquired a lot of skills while working in the community. Like  many others, I want to get out. I want to stay in the great world of  computer science, digital security, reverse engineering, obfuscation and such but I want to get out of this kind of business. Its foreseeably  temporary and the more I stay in it, the more it impacts the mental  health of me and my coworkers. Plus it makes a lot of people mad, and at some point I’d like to stop being responsible for the distress of a lot of people. Even though you cannot live without making some people mad,  this is the type of business that actively promotes making some mad. Me  and some friends already have plans to do something post-exploiting,  something more humble or more rewarding, possibly more passive. Who  knows.

## Afterword

I have written this article as a way to specify details left untold in *Raising the Bar*, as well as to provide my current sentiments on the present situation of the exploiting scene. I opted to use the actual jargon we use in the  community instead of professionally-sounding words as to cease my  hypocrisy and my appeal to corporate, and I’ve put in all my thoughts  without Synapse or any Synapse biases in mind. Hopefully, this will  bring a clearer picture of what competition entails and a more detailed  history of Roblox exploiting.

There will never be a resolution of all toxicity, including the  ceasing of all intercompetition aggression and dishonest one-upmanship.  However, I wish for the day where competition will actually force us  into motion and present something that will truly change things. When  they do so, they will find no need to conduct anything that can be seen  as unfair, as their own progress will lead them to eventual victory. I  know they believe there is no room for innovation – there is. Maybe we  can see it and others can’t. Maybe they lack the creativity, but I doubt it. They probably lack the motivation. Often, I see that they ask  themselves why Synapse seems to be stagnating, as very little changes  are pushed in our updates and our website is seemingly staying as it is  with all its issues. I have no answers to provide, but perhaps it would  be wise to guess that some people like to keep their mouths shut when  working on new things.